	Heart disease describes a range of conditions that affect your heart. Diseases under the heart disease umbrella include blood vessel diseases, such as coronary artery disease, heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias) and heart defects you’re born with (congenital heart defects), among others.
The term “heart disease” is often used interchangeably with the term “cardiovascular disease”. Cardiovascular disease generally refers to conditions that involve narrowed or blocked blood vessels that can lead to a heart attack, chest pain (angina) or stroke. Other heart conditions, such as those that affect your heart’s muscle, valves or rhythm, also are considered forms of heart disease.
	Heart disease is one of the biggest cause for morbidity and mortality among the population of the world. Prediction of cardiovascular disease is regarded as one of the most important subject in the section of clinical data analysis. The amount of data in the healthcare industry is huge. Data mining turns the large collection of raw healthcare data into information that can help to make informed decision and prediction.
This makes heart disease a major concern to be dealt with. But it is difficult to identify heart disease because of several contributory risk factors such as diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, abnormal pulse rate and many other factors. Due to such constraints scientists have turned towards modern approaches like Data Mining and Machine Learning for predicting the disease.

Here I will use ‘Heart Disease prediction dataset’ obtained from Kaggle/uci repository.
This Dataset has data of patients in Cleveland. 
Database: 
Data Source:  Kaggle.com( https://www.kaggle.com/ronitf/heart-disease-uci)
Experiments with the Cleveland database have concentrated on simply attempting to distinguish presence (values 1) from absence (value 0).

Attributes of Data:

1.Age : Age is the most important risk factor in developing cardiovascular or heart diseases, with approximately a tripling of risk with each decade of life. Coronary fatty streaks can begin to form in adolescence. It is estimated that 82 percent of people who die of coronary heart disease are 65 and older. Simultaneously, the risk of stroke doubles every decade after age 55.

2.Sex : Men are at greater risk of heart disease than pre-menopausal women. Once past menopause, it has been argued that a woman’s risk is similar to a man’s although more recent data from the WHO and UN disputes this. If a female has diabetes, she is more likely to develop heart disease than a male with diabetes.

3.Angina (Chest Pain) : Angina is chest pain or discomfort caused when your heart muscle doesn’t get enough oxygen-rich blood. It may feel like pressure or squeezing in your chest. The discomfort also can occur in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. Angina pain may even feel like indigestion.

4.Resting Blood Pressure : Over time, high blood pressure can damage arteries that feed your heart. High blood pressure that occurs with other conditions, such as obesity, high cholesterol or diabetes, increases your risk even more.

5.Serum Cholestrol : A high level of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (the “bad” cholesterol) is most likely to narrow arteries. A high level of triglycerides, a type of blood fat related to your diet, also ups your risk of heart attack. However, a high level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (the “good” cholesterol) lowers your risk of heart attack.

6.Fasting Blood Sugar : Not producing enough of a hormone secreted by your pancreas (insulin) or not responding to insulin properly causes your body’s blood sugar levels to rise, increasing your risk of heart attack.

7.Resting ECG : For people at low risk of cardiovascular disease, the USPSTF concludes with moderate certainty that the potential harms of screening with resting or exercise ECG equal or exceed the potential benefits. For people at intermediate to high risk, current evidence is insufficient to assess the balance of benefits and harms of screening.

8.Max heart rate achieved : The increase in the cardiovascular risk, associated with the acceleration of heart rate, was comparable to the increase in risk observed with high blood pressure. It has been shown that an increase in heart rate by 10 beats per minute was associated with an increase in the risk of cardiac death by at least 20%, and this increase in the risk is similar to the one observed with an increase in systolic blood pressure by 10 mm Hg.

9.Exercise induced angina : The pain or discomfort associated with angina usually feels tight, gripping or squeezing, and can vary from mild to severe. Angina is usually felt in the centre of your chest, but may spread to either or both of your shoulders, or your back, neck, jaw or arm. It can even be felt in your hands. o Types of Angina a. Stable Angina / Angina Pectoris b. Unstable Angina c. Variant (Prinzmetal) Angina d. Microvascular Angina.

10.Peak exercise ST segment : A treadmill ECG stress test is considered abnormal when there is a horizontal or down-sloping ST-segment depression = 1 mm at 60–80 ms after the J point. Exercise ECGs with up-sloping ST-segment depressions are typically reported as an ‘equivocal’ test. In general, the occurrence of horizontal or down-sloping ST-segment depression at a lower workload (calculated in METs) or heart rate indicates a worse prognosis and higher likelihood of multi-vessel disease. The duration of ST-segment depression is also important, as prolonged recovery after peak stress is consistent with a positive treadmill ECG stress test. Another finding that is highly indicative of significant CAD is the occurrence of ST-segment elevation > 1 mm (often suggesting transmural ischaemia); these patients are frequently referred urgently for coronary angiography.

Based on above features I will be performing data analysis, feature selection, and statistical modelling.
Tools Proposed:
•	Numpy
•	Pandas
•	ScikitLearn
•	Matplotlib
•	Seaborn

Dataset Name: Cleveland.csv
Cleveland: No. of rows 303
Number of Attributes: 14 (including the predicted attribute)
Attribute Information:
1.age: age in years
2.sex: sex (1 = male; 0 = female)
3.cp: chest pain type
	Value 1: typical angina
	Value 2: atypical angina
	Value 3: non-anginal pain
	Value 4: asymptomatic
4.trestbps: resting blood pressure (in mm Hg on admission to the hospital)
5.chol: serum cholestoral in mg/dl
6.fbs: (fasting blood sugar > 120 mg/dl)  (1 = true; 0 = false)
7.restecg: resting electrocardiographic results
	Value 0: normal
	Value 1: having ST-T wave abnormality (T wave inversions and/or ST elevation or depression of > 0.05 mV)
	Value 2: showing probable or definite left ventricular hypertrophy by Estes' criteria
8.thalach: maximum heart rate achieved
9.exang: exercise induced angina (1 = yes; 0 = no)
10.slope: the slope of the peak exercise ST segment
	Value 1: upsloping
	Value 2: flat
	Value 3: downsloping
11.Oldpeak: ST depression induced by exercise relative to rest
12.ca: number of major vessels (0-3) colored by flourosopy
13.thal: 3 = normal; 6 = fixed defect; 7 = reversable defect
14.target: diagnosis of heart disease (angiographic disease status)
	Value 0: < 50% diameter narrowing
	Value 1: > 50% diameter narrowing

Goal: Create a model that can predict patient has heart disease or not
